# 01/10/22: cover letter

Dear Editor,

Please find our uploaded manuscript “Quantum theory of electron excitation and
sputtering by transmission electron spectroscopy” that we are hereby submitting
for consideration as an article in ACS Nano.

Electron beam irradiation by transmission electron microscopy (TEM) is an
effective tool for defect engineering in 2-dimensional (2D) materials,
potentially with atomic-scale precision.
This degree of spatial control can provide powerful solutions to many of
today’s most pressing challenges in nanotechnology, including quantum device
fabrication, hydrogen evolution catalysis, and electronic device
miniaturization.
Often, beam-induced defects are initiated and sculpted through a process called
sputtering, in which a beam electron knocks an atom out of the material.
However, despite the broad application of TEM-driven defect engineering in
materials science, current theoretical models fail to describe this effect,
highlighting the fact that the non-equilibrium physics taking place during
sputtering remains poorly understood.
Specifically, existing models drastically underestimate sputtering rates in
insulators, in which beam-induced electronic excitations may weaken the bonding
between the irradiated atoms.
Most notably, substantial sputtering is experimentally observed at beam
energies deemed far too low to drive atomic dislocations by present-day
theories.
To address this anomalous behavior, this work develops the first quantum
electrodynamics (QED)-based method to accurately describe electron beam-induced
sputtering cross sections in 2D crystals by explicitly calculating the
probabilities of beam-induced electronic excitations and their effects on
sputtering kinetics. 
The consideration of excitations yields cross sections that quantitatively
match experiment and correctly predict appreciable sputtering rates at beam
energies previously predicted to leave the crystal intact.
This new predictive theory can pave the way for the use of TEM for top-down
atomic-scale defect engineering of 2D insulators. 


We feel that this work meets the acceptance criteria of ACS Nano, as it
significantly advances the state of the art in modelling the response of
materials to electron irradiation.
The QED-based prediction of excitation rates could also push efforts to
simulate both TEM images and electron energy loss spectra towards a more
analytical, quantum field theory-based direction.
Furthermore, we believe that this article will appeal to the diverse readership
of ACS Nano.
We have attempted to present our findings in a logical and pedagogical manner,
including sufficient background information and motivation to make our work
accessible to a broad audience.
At the same time, the article also provides in-depth derivations and technical
details for experts who wish to reproduce our results.

This manuscript has not been published and is not under consideration for
publication elsewhere.
We have no conflicts of interest to disclose.

Thank you for your consideration.

On behalf of all the authors,

Anthony Yoshimura, PhD
Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory
Livermore, CA 94550, USA

